import { ArticleLayout } from '@/components/ArticleLayout';
import Image from 'next/image';
import coopGraph from './coop.png';

export const meta = {
  author: 'Jonathan Park',
  date: '2023-02-05',
  title:
    'Insert Clickbait Title Here: How I landed my first software job 3 weeks after I graduated with no experience - Part 1',
  description: 'A multipart series of articles exploring how I got into software engineering.',
};

export default (props) => <ArticleLayout meta={meta} {...props} />;

## _Did you click?_

All joking aside, it is true I received my first job as a full stack developer approximately 3 weeks
after I completed my undergraduate degree. It is also true I had no "industry" related experience
(my resume included "Appliance Salesman" and "Martial Arts Instructor"). I barely knew what a static
website was, let alone understand basic client/server architecture. I did have a couple computer
science courses under my belt but this was definitely not sufficient enough to call my self a
developer. I had a huge amount of imposter syndrome...plus some more on top of that.

So what's the point of this article. Someone recently came to me for advice relating to my career as
a software engineer. And I never thought that I would be in this position that I am now offering up
guidance to someone who needs it. I remember being fresh out of university terrified of what came
next. I just exited this institution I had expected would provide me with the relevant skills to
help start my career but the reality was I knew nothing. This important information that I was
lacking, I would have to find and learn on my own. Thus, I am writing to reflect on my journey.
Hopefully as I proceed, I can extract some useful nuggets out of my ongoing story and I hope whoever
may come across this might find some value, or at least find some entertainment.

## Google - Part 1

It was fall of 2018.  I had just returned to school from a permanent layoff a few terms earlier to
finish my degree after being a university dropout for the previous 2 years.  I would be graduating
soon and being a non co-op student at the University of Waterloo, I needed to figure out how I was
going to enter the job market in my field of study with no prior applicable work experience.  And if
you've ever looked at any junior software job applications that asks for 5+ years of experience in
some technology, your motivation tends to die a little inside.  Trying to get the most out of all
the university resources, I went to a career counselor who recommended I stop in at recruiting
events.

Google was coming to campus for their termly recruiting event.  I had arrived 20 minutes early so
that I could settle in and get a decent seat.  How I was mistaken.  As I arrived the line had
already exceeded the plenty of space that the university's Federation Hall had provided.   Every
hallway was lined with students and if it hadn't been raining, the line might have easily wrapped
around the building.

Accepting the magnitude of the situation, I took my place in line standing amongst the many young
first year CS and engineering students all with the hopes of scoring "The Cali" job for their up and
coming co-op year.  I looked around, many had come with their friends and classmates.  Others, like
myself, just standing there using our phones as a means to patiently wait.  As I stood there, I
could recognise the typical university banter.  All the usual talk about assignments and midterms
that had just been completed, along with the few unique individuals stroking their egos by asking
seemingly innocent but pervasive questions like "What did you get on the midterm?" or "You're not
done [insert course code here] assignment yet!?"

It finally came time for the mob of students to be let into the presentation hall.  The doors opened
and with the promise of free pizza, all hell broke loose.  In typical student fashion the line
vanished.  Students at the end of line who had just arrived, rushed for the door cutting infront of
everyone left, right and center. And when the others saw, all morals dissipated and a mob mentality
took over.  A Hobbesian state of nature unfolding right in front of me. The sacred commonly agreed
upon laws usually upheld by society became non-existent. My initiative of arriving early,
instantaneously became pointless. As the chaos settled and the hungry students got their pizza,  I
was one of the lucky ones to get a proper seat in the auditorium, but as I looked around, I could
see students crowding the aisles and perimeter of the room, easily breaking whatever fire code was
set in place.

After a short while, as students still trickled in, a young, extroverted woman appeared on the front
podium.  Knowing exactly what students were jonesing for, she was immediately able to grab the
attention of the entire auditorium with the promise of free google "swag". After all the fun and
games,  the actual presentations began.  Google had 5 speakers lined up.  They were all University
of Waterloo alumni who had ended up at Google full time.  They were there to share their stories of
how they got to where they were with the end goal, I assume, to try to offer some advice. Every
presenter was passionate about their work, each solving interesting and challenging problems for
Google. But as I listened to their individual stories, a problem arose for me.  They all presented a
fairly similar story arch. This arch was best visualized in their powerp...google slides template.
One slide in particular.

The slide contained an image of a linear graph. Almost reminicent of when you first learned how to
graph the function $ y = mx + b $ in elementary school. A linear function with a positive slope of
their career trajectory increasing as a function of their time at the University of Waterloo (...I
took the liberty to add in the axes).

<Image src={coopGraph} alt="" />

Every one of these presentors was an all-star alumnist which was something to definitely strive
towards. But sitting in my seat, all I could ask myself was what in the hell am I doing at this
event? I could see optimistic first year Jon, telling himself that this path to Google (or any
company for that matter) was feasible. Unfortunately, my years in school had beaten that optimism
out of me. I had been a terrible student. I was a failed dropout trying to redeem himself in his
last year. But seeing these presentations, there was no way I could enter the tech industry as a
software engineer. I missed my chance because I fucked up early on in my university career or so I
genuinely thought at the time...

## ...Few Years Later

I have been able to call myself a software engineer for the last 4 years and I realize that this
little anecdote doesn't really offer any advice of substance other than, "If I can do it, you can do
it too" or "Everyone's story arch is a bit different." But sometimes that's enough to spark a little
motivation.
